---
layout: post
title: Third Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This past week I finished the Collatz project. After that I spent the next few hours obsessively searching through piazza posts trying to make sure I'd avoided all the pitfalls that would cause me to take a 20% late penalty. It was only after 10:00 past that I could rest knowing there was nothing more I could do.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>The quizzes are killing me. I'm doing the readings and reviewing my notes but I'm still failing them left and right. For some reason, I can't acclimate to the format. My using test-taking strategy is to run through the questions as quick as possible (which, for me, is usually quite slow) and then spend the remaining time carefully reviewing my answers. However, for these quizzes, the meticulous approach is simply impossible. I can't review my answers after I submit them, I can't look ahead to gauge the difficulty of remaining questions, and sometimes the questions have enough depth so that I can't even parse what they're asking in the remaining time. It's frustrating because I don't see the rational behind these conditions.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I will be joining forces with another student in order to take on the second project. The specifics of project 2 haven't been posted yet which is great because I'm not sure if I'm mentally prepared for it at this time</p>.
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>This post has already turned out pretty complainy. I just want to emphasize that its because this class does so many things right that the problems tend to stick out. Lectures continue to be engaging and informative and the professor and TAs are very active on Piazza. I'm a big fan of the “lets look at some code” method of teaching at I feel like its leagues ahead of commentary on PowerPoint slides.</p>
<p>I know that this is supposed to encourage us to read all the Piazza posts, but I feel like all of the grading criteria and “gotchas” that end up appearing in question responses should be compiled into one pinned instructor post. Its hard to have much confidence in your submission when your staring down hundreds of already-read posts. Who knows what kind of overlooked details could be hiding in there?</p>
<p>This may seem kind of nit-picky, but I feel like it deserves mentioning. I noticed there was an unintended incentive in the first project's bonus points system. The intention of the public test repo was to foster a since of community by having everyone contribute to something we could all reap the benefits from. The problem is that bonus points are awarded for people failing your acceptance tests. This means that the earlier you contribute to the repo, the less likely you are to receive bonus points because more people have used your acceptance tests. This may be kind of cynical but it seems to me like the only people who stand a chance at getting the points are people who submitted their pull requests at the last minute. Now, this is highly unlikely to matter as there don't appear to be any crazy silver bullet edge cases in the Collatz project, but I feel like this kind of undermines the public test repo's intended goal. For future instances of this project, I would suggest giving 1 bonus point to the first 20 people to contribute legitimate test cases, or perhaps if they contributed their tests before a certain date. I feel like that sort of thing would get people working together, rather than against each other.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I was looking up some stuff about references when I came across <a href="https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Reference_Arguments">Google's C++ Style Guide</a>. I'm sure some of you have noticed some troubling syntax when you use a references are an argument for a function in that it creates a situation where you don't know whether a function is passing its parameters by value or by reference without looking at the function definition. This that any variable used as a parameter could possibly be changed, making code reading a bit of a nightmare. Google's  solution to the problem is to only allow reference arguments if you make them const, meaning the variables used as parameters cannot change unexpectedly. It's an interesting problem, weighing ponterless, prettier code against possible ambiguity. While I don't think I'll be swearing off reference arguments in my future projects, I still think its an interesting reminder to be careful when using them, episodically when working with others.</p>
