---
layout: post
title: Fourth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I did the second project, Netflix. Although the project seems a lot more difficult than the first one paper, working with a partner makes things run a lot smoother. It's much easier to avoid getting bogged down in simple mistakes and to make steady progress towards your goal when you have some one looking over your shoulder.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>There's nothing in particular that's in my way this week. Keeping up with the projects and readings is a lot of work, but its nothing unreasonable.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I will be finishing up the Netflix project. I'll also be dragging myself to the CNS career fair, so it'll be quite busy.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>The first project had a pretty steep learning curve with all the tools you have to learn. However, after you've learned them I found it's not that hard to incorporate them into your normal work flow. This was especially true after doing pair programming and seeing how my partner went about doing things. It was nice to see something that felt so clunky in the beginning quickly become such a natural thing.</p>
<p>One thing I've noticed is that we really haven't talked much about object oriented programming in class and I also haven't really objects in the projects either apart form the STL. Given the amount of data we had to deal with for the Netflix project, it seemed like it would best to avoid an expensive, object heavy solution. Some times I get the feeling that I'm just writing C code in C++ because that appears to be the best way to approach the problem.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>In the Netflix project, you can't really diff against your expected output for an acceptance test because what you really need to be checking is the RMSE. Modifying the make file to have this kind of behavior was pretty difficult, but I learned a few things that weren't very obvious when I started off:</p>
<ol><li>$ indicates a make variable, so you need to escape it with $$ if you are trying to refer to a bash variable.</li><li>You can use the “==” operator in most shells, but not it your makefile (= works fine)</li><li>You can trigger an error that causes the build to fail with <code>exit 1</code></li><li>If its not working, your spacing is probably wrong.</li><li>If it's still not working, try putting things bash commands on the same line separated by a ';'.</li><li>You have to use [0-9] and [.] when trying to match numbers in grep, it won't handle /. and /d.</li></ol>
