---
layout: post
title: Fifth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I finished the Netflix project. It was going okay until a mistake I noticed when I was about to turn it in turned into a five hour scramble to get it fixed in time. In class we learned about iterators, templates, and all the cool stuff they do at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. We even got to see some one use Microsoft's new HoloLens, which was pretty awsome.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>The use of Piazza to specify requirements for the projects is very frustrating. On the day the project was due, the professor posted a list of all the things a correct submission needed to have. In some ways this was great, as this is exactly what people asked for in the wake of the Collatz project, everything we needed to know in one place. However, some of these requirements turned out to not exactly be trivial, most specifically the requirement that unit tests mock the cache files. <a href="https://piazza.com/class/irybyipu8yu6jd?cid=294">This</a> had given me the impression that it was okay to use wget to retrieve the cache files for use in the unit tests. Looking back at the post knowing what I know now, I can see that the professor meant that it was okay to use wget to run acceptance tests on Travis, not that is was okay to use it for the unit tests. The problem is that, even though I thought I had read all the Piazza posts, I never saw any indication that this requirement existed until the last day. The change it required was significant, having to add many new parameters at changing many things our code had assumed were constants. Then after that we had to formulate new tests that some how simulated a subset of the caches. It was too much to be doing hours before the deadline. I hope there will be a way to avoid such surprises in the future.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we will be introduced to the next project. It appears that we will also be expanding upon our discussion of iterators.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>At first I was skeptical of having guest speakers come in and talk about their companies. It seemed like it would be wasted time where we wouldn't learn anything. However, it turned out to be a great experience to see what sort of cool things people are doing in industry and how they are using the same types of tools that we are using in this class. The JPA presentation was especially interesting, it really got me existed about the way technology was headed and the possibility of working with it in the future.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>When you use git clone to create a local repository, it automatically does a remote add of the cloned repository as origin and tracks all the branches. An explanation of the benefits of tracking branches can be found <a href="https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/faq/track-remote-upstream-branch">here</a>. However, when you are creating a new repository it is easy to forget to track branches on the remote. I really recommend setting it up anyway (using one of the methods mentioned in the link) as using “git pull” and “git push” as short-hands for updating a specific branch is not only convenient, it also helps prevent you from pushing to the wrong branch, which could cause a serious problem.</p>
