---
layout: post
title: Thirteenth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I finished the Life project. It was pretty difficult so I ended up working on it all the way up to the last hour making little changes here and there. In class we saw a presentation from Spiceworks, a company that makes tools for IT professionals. We also learned some more C++ magic like how a pure virtual destructor gets you a class that's pretty close to the Java meaning of abstract.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>I have to admit Life was pretty rough. I implemented most of the project before I saw on Piazza that we were supposed to pass vectors instead of arrays of polymorphic objects. I had gotten around it with some strange usage of templates but I kinda wish I had used vectors and saved myself a lot of trouble.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week will be Thanksgiving so we won't have much class. It looks like we will be talking about handles again like we did for the Life project.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>Though Life was more difficult than the previous projects I thought it was appropriate for our final one. Its hard to believe I won't be doing another one. I've got the whole process so ingrained in my brain that I think I will end up carrying over the work-flow from this class to my own projects in the future.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p><a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bind-function-placeholders-c/">This</a> article talks about a really cool functionality in C++ called “bind()”. It basically allows you to rebind the parameters of a function to create another function with some of the arguments removed or reordered. For instance, I can bind a function that takes 4 ints by setting the first two arguments to be zero and then swapping the last two arguments resulting in a two argument function in a different order. If you've ever had a function with too many arguments for transform or a similar function this may be a convent way to fix it.</p>
