---
layout: post
title: First Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>Besides all the standard syllabus stuff, this week we were introduced to all of the different tools we would be using along with some interesting details about C++, like operator overloading and the difference between “import” and “using.” I also spent a good 2 hours trying to figure out how to set up this blog before realizing that everything I needed to know was at this <a href="https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/08/build-blog-jekyll-github-pages/">link</a>. If you haven't started your blog yet, going here first will save you some trouble.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Writing about my experiences has been the bane of my existence since elementary school, so making these weekly blog posts will be a bit of a challenge. Considering that I'd probably be willing to jump out of an airplane (with a parachute, of course) for extra credit, I'm sure I'll get through it somehow. I'll also have to find a different partner for each of my projects. Considering the fact that I only have one friend, this implies that I will have to <i>meet people</i>. Only time will tell what will become of this perilous venture.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Well, I suppose I will be working on the first project. This means figuring out how to use Docker (which I thought was called “Doctor” until I saw someone post about it on Piazza), Google Test, and all the other tools I need to get running. It seems like the Docker image will already have stuff installed on it, so it's likely not as difficult an undertaking as I fear.</p>
<p><b>General Thoughts on the Class</b></p>
<p>The lectures so far to be pretty interesting, which, interestingly enough, is my favorite adjective for a lecture. We spend most of the time looking at code and people are called on to answer questions. Unfortunately, I haven't been called on yet. I assume that's because fate has decided my time will come when I don't know the answer to the professor's question, resulting in me being horribly humiliated. Baring the looming shadow of this inevitability, I think this is a fantastic way to teach a computer science course. It gets people engaged with the curriculum and gets them to pay attention. That also appears to be the motivation behind the quizzes as well, if you payed attention to the previous lecture, you should do fine.</p>
<p>The class has a very practical feel to it. Analyzing and discussing code with others is a big part of what most people who graduate in Computer Science end up doing. Using so many tools also adds to the who practicality aspect as most companies, I assume, have moved pretty far from the ol' Notepad and compiler method of programming.</p>
<p><b>Tip-of-the-week</b></p>
<p>This tip is for people like me who are not Git Master Ninja Wizards<sup>TM</sup>. When I started making this blog, I was editing editing everything manually on the Github website because I figured setting up a local repository would a huge pain. I ended up making a bunch of commits for a bunch of small changes to different files and, on top of that, the online editor is pretty frustrating to use. It turns out during my quest to figure out how to set up Jekyll I downloaded <a href="https://desktop.github.com/">this nifty application</a>. It makes setting up a local clone of your repository really easy. Just click the plus on the top right to clone your branch of jeckyll-now and then click the sync button to commit your local changes. It's way less of a headache compared to using command line or the website.</p>
