---
layout: post
title: Eighth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we were introduced to the Allocator project. We also learned about the differences between array and pointer syntax in C++ and started discussing the details in implementing a vector. </p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>There isn't anything really in my way this week. I don't really have the time to work on the Allocator project with a partner this time so I'll have to go it alone. Since the project isn't as open-ended as the last one, I think I will be okay doing it by myself.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I will be finishing the Allocator project. We will also be continuing our discussion on vectors, most likely a version that uses allocators and one that does not.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>I think the Allocator project is really cool. It takes a feature of the C++ standard library, the ability to pass allocators to collections, and makes it into something we can understand well enough to possibly take advantage of in the future. It great to know that you can still use vectors and the like even when you are not free to allocate to the heap unrestricted.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I found a cool <a href="http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=2209021">article</a> about useful quality of life changes made in C++14. The nicest feature I saw is the ability to write binary literals using “0b” in a same way you would write “0x” for hex literals. Additionally, they added something really interesting in the form of templated variables. The intended use case for these is for when you have a constant value but you don't know what type the user will want it in. You can just use <code>variable_name&lt;typename&gt;</code> to initialize you constant in the desired type, rather than having to recast it.</p>
