---
layout: post
title: Twelfth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I worked on the Life project. We also started talking about inheritance and the different kinds of variables in C++.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Life was a little more difficult to get started than Darwin, but the discussion in class really helped me work it out. It was really hard to fight the urge to just jump in and work it out without planning first because the problem was less intuitive than Darwin and I really wanted to just pin it down. Taking the time to write out the diagrams first probably saved me a lot of time in the long run though.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I'll be finishing up the Life project and we're likely to continue discussing inheritance in class. I also have a bunch of tests and interviews so the pain train keeps chugging forward. But alas, soon Thanksgiving break will be upon us.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>One thing that I found kind of weird was that the things we are discussing in class now is the stuff that was in the readings weeks ago while the readings are just now talking about templates and stuff. It seems like maybe things could have been switched around a little to seem more relevant but I guess getting a peek about what we're going to learn in the future is cool too.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p><a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/g-fact-24/">Here's</a> a little trick I learned in the spirit of the global/local variables we talked about this week. Unlike in C, you can access a global variable with the same name as a local in C++. All you have to do is add a “::” before it. If you've ever had the compiler yell at you to add “::” and then everything magically works, now you know why. It's not a fancy trick, but helpful to know.</p>
