---
layout: post
title: Fourteenth Week
---
<p><b><i>Still Alive</i></b></p>
<p>Well this week turned out to be quite a doozy. I usually appreciate not having final exams and just having a test at the end of the semester, but when 3 courses decide to do this at the same time you can end up with 3 exams on the same day. Unfortunately, is what happened to me.</p>
<p><b>The Exam</b></p>
<p>So what was it like taking the last exam for this class right off the back of two others? Not so bad, really. Professor Downing's teaching style makes the things you learn seem quite intuitive to you and the projects only serve to reinforce this. As a result, even though I didn't have as much time to review for this exam, I didn't feel unprepared. Still, even if I felt comfortable in terms of knowledge some of the questions on the exam really required you to flex your understanding. More than once I would read through a question and think it was totally unreasonable but on a second pass see how the concepts we had learned could be applied to them (usually they were mentioned somewhere in the question itself). In a way, even the test itself was a learning experience. That's some pretty cool stuff.</p>
<p><b>The Quizzes</b></p>
<p>I'll admit that I've been pretty negative about the quizzes since day one. Its not that they were unhelpful or poorly written, its just that the format was incredibly frustrating. The short time allotted combined with no ability to go back or see the questions ahead lead to an incredibly tense experience. When the answer isn't immediately obvious, you ended up with a dilemma. Do I guess on this question so I have time for the next one or do I take my time here and hope the next one is easier? These situations made me really dread the first few minutes of class which is a shame because the rest of lecture is so engaging. Perhaps it's the case that I take all the little grades in life too seriously, but you never know what's going to be the tipping point between a letter grade.</p>
<p><b>The Projects</b></p>
<p>The projects are pretty distinct from all the projects I did in other classes because there was such an emphasis on a proper work-flow. For most of the early projects, I'd say I spent just as much time fiddling with git, trying to come up with issues to track, waiting for Travis to build, or writing Google Tests as I spent on the actual code. I definitely got better at these things as time went on and it was great to get some practical experience that was more in line with the real world. That being said, I had to write an absurd amount of unit tests for the Life project and it was quite a headache. I think, perhaps, something like a maximum of fifty unit tests would be more reasonable. This way people can have little helper functions if they want them without feeling punished.</p>
<p><b>The Readings</b></p>
<p>The readings, though rarely mentioned, did a good job complementing the lectures. While in class we talked about code and implementation, the readings talked more about the larger scale things you need to have in mind when designing a real world project. I think more questions about the reading should have shown up on the quizzes. I suspect people stopped reading them because they were never asked about, which is a shame.</p>
<p><b>Final Thoughts</b></p>
<p>I'm really happy to have taken this class. It was just by random chance that I took it because it happened to be the only upper division elective that was still open, but honestly I feel like this course should be required. There is so much critical information about C++ and object oriented techniques that I feel I would have never even known about if I hadn't stumbled into this course. Heck, I would have bombed several interviews if it wasn't for the knowledge I had gained in this class just days earlier. I can say with confidence that I learned some really invaluable stuff this semester.</p>
