---
layout: post
title: Eleventh Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I finished the Darwin project. I also got a surprise project from a company I had interviewed with that really made me regret having procrastinated the finishing touches on Darwin (which turned out to be more of a complete rework). Any way, one week and two projects later, it appears I am still alive. We learned about r-value references in class which is both cool and confusing at the same time.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Besides my mismanagement of my workload, nothing in particular is in my way this week. That being said, I'm not really sure about a couple of aspects about my Darwin submission, like whether anything I wrote qualifies as a getter or if my class diagram is done correct.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I'll be starting the Life project. We'll also be learning about Shapes apparently, so I'm pretty sure we'll be talking about inheritance.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>The Darwin project was really cool. The no setters and getters restriction forced me to really think through my design and create an interacting community of parts rather than a bunch of glorified structs. When it all came together and actual worked, it felt pretty rewarding.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I don't have a link for this one, but its just something I discovered while working on my other project. Having a virtual function takes up space in your classes in order to store a pointer, so if you add a virtual function, it will increase the size of your object. Additionally, it turns out virtual destructors are a thing. At first that seems weird because the parent constructor is always called anyway, but it is actually indispensable when you have a pointer to something as its base class and need to delete it. If you don't declare the base classes destructor virtual, the derived classes destructor won't be called and you might leak memory. Some information on this can be found <a href="http://www.programmerinterview.com/index.php/c-cplusplus/virtual-destructors/">here</a>.</p>
