---
layout: post
title: Seventh Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we learned about crazy const pointers and how they are liken to a professor with a paint ball gun who can only paint men. We also took our first exam, which turned out alright.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothings in particular is in my way. I suppose the timing for the next project is going to be a little rough because it overlaps with all my remaining midterms but I suppose I just have to budget my time appropriately.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we will get started on the next project, Allocator. We'll be talking about it on class on Monday. I guess I'll have to find a partner this week or choose to go it alone.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>The test seemed pretty fair. Having the note sheet didn't really prove to be all that necessary but it helped to have reminders like to use const references and pre-increment whenever possible. I'm not 100% sure on what sort of details are going to be looked at for the grading, so I'm hoping when I get my grade for this one I'll have an idea of what to check for on the next test. I was surprised to see the subjects the class struggled most with, constructors and const pointers, weren't directly covered in the exam. Perhaps the ability to ask such questions was limited by the code-only format?</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I found another cool <a href="http://www.informit.com/blogs/blog.aspx?uk=30-C-Tips-in-30-Days-Tip-9-comma-separated-expressions">blog post</a> from Dany Kalev. This one is about “comma separated expressions” which I didn't know existed until now. All expressions in the comma separated list are guaranteed to be evaluated, but only the final value is returned. This is especially useful in loops when you need to increment several variables but only need to check one condition.</p>
