<p><b>What did I do this week</b></p>
<p>This week I got started on the first project, Collatz! We spent a lot of time in class going over the problem raised in the project and the procedure we should use in solving it. We also learned about how exceptions work in C++. It turns out they're just good old fashioned “pay attention to me or I'm gonna shoot ya” ultimatums.</p>
<p><b>What's in my way</b></p>
<p>Getting things set up turned out to be a real challenge for me. For instance, I went and followed the instructions for Travis CI at this <a ref =”https://travis-ci.org/getting_started”>link</a> only to get really confused because I couldn't get it to display my private repositories. After somehow getting them to show up, I clicked the little button that enabled Travis for that repository. Then I was basically left with the question “What did that just do?”. Eventually, I discovered that if I went to travis-ci.<i>com</i> (instead of .org) I could see all the automated builds. Every thing seemed to move at that kind of pace, from using Docker correctly to closing issues with commit messages (it turns out they don't come into effect until you merge back with the master branch). It was, honestly, pretty frustrating, but it does seem to be all behind me now.</p>
<p><b>What will you do next week?</b></p>
<p>Next week I'll be putting the finishing touches on Collatz and then starting the next project, where we can work in pairs. It is my sincere hope that finishing Collatz does not go smoothly because it looks like I'm going to be like 5 issues short of the required 15 issues. Unfortunately, I don't think the issue “Need more issues” is gonna fly.</p>
<p></b>General thoughts on the class<b></p>
<p>Well, the quizzes turned out to be a lot harder than my initial impression. You only have 5 minutes, which seems like a lot of time until you take into account two factors. One, it takes like a minute for Canvas to take your code and let you actually start the quiz and two, you can't see the next problem on the quiz until you answer the first. Since you don't know how hard the next question is going to be, you reach a point were you just have to guess on a problem because you can't afford to miss the next problem that will be worth more points. If you happen to know the answer to the next problem off the top of your head, then you guessed on the first problem for no reason. The whole process seems very clunky to me.</p>
<p>The lectures have been very understandable and engaging. I especially enjoyed the explanation on how to make good use of exceptions. The only thing that strikes me as odd is that it doesn't seem like we've learned much in the way of object-oriented programming yet. I assume we're still getting there.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-week</b><p>
<p>This is a Linux thing many people may know about but may not know the whole story. I'm the type of person who goes crazy typing the same stuff into the terminal over and over again, so I made myself a quick bash script to get Docker running in my current working directory:</p>
<p>#!/bin/bash
sudo docker run -it -v $(pwd):/usr/cs371p -w /usr/cs371p gpdowning/gcc</p>
<p>Being the astute forward-thinker that I am, I reasoned that it would be unreasonable to place this script in the directory with all my code for the first project as I would surely need this script in all the projects that followed. I needed a logical place to put my script so I could easily access it from any directory. After a modest Google search I discovered that a bash shell looks through the directories listed in the colon-delimited PATH environment variable every time you reference a filename without giving the full path. This is what it does every time you type “ls” (or any other command) as the program ls is contained in the /bin folder which is one of the directories listed in the PATH variable. The question is, how do you exploit the PATH variable so you can have one of your own directories be immediately accessible? Well my first attempt was to try the command:</p>
<p>% export PATH=”$PATH:~/mydirectory”</p>
<p>However, this only modified PATH for that specific terminal. I want PATH to be modified every time I open a terminal. Luckily, there is a file called ~/.profile that runs every time you open a shell. I added the following code to that file:</p>
<p># add the user's script directory if it exists
if [ -d "$HOME/scripts" ] ; then
    PATH="$PATH:$HOME/scripts"
fi</p>
<p>Now, as if by magic, everything I put in my ~/scripts folder can be referenced anywhere by just the filename! I went and dropped by rundocker.sh file in there and now I can enter “bash rundocker.sh” anywhere to run a Docker image in that directory. Pretty snazy.</p>
