---
layout: post
title: Sixth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we learned more about iterators and operator overloading. It turns out that C++ has a bunch of crazy features like “friends” and the ability to put const at the end of a method definition.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothings in way in particular this week. I might have a little bit of lingering confusion in regards to the weird syntax involving objects being interchangeable with a value its constructor has as an argument, but I think that will lessen the more I practice I get with it.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week is the big scary test. My study plan is to try and recreate the classes and functions we made in class and then see how the professor's implementation differed from mine.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>I'm starting to grasp what this course is about. At first, I thought the class was going to be all about inheritance, encapsulation, and all that other high-level stuff that's in the textbook. Instead, it is dealing with the more interesting details of how to a developer can build a better implementation, like moving errors to compile time or knowing when to use stronger or weaker iterators. I really had no idea how many useful features C++ had. It feels like it gives you the same level of control as C while also being an object oriented language.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I found an <a href="http://www.informit.com/blogs/blog.aspx?uk=30-C-Tips-in-30-Days-Tip-21-using-references-to-arrays&WT.rss_f=AuthorBlog&WT.rss_a=30-C-Tips-in-30-Days-Tip-21-using-references-to-arrays&WT.rss_ev=a">interesting blog post</a> about declaring a reference to an array. At first this seems like no big deal because arrays are automatically passed to functions as pointer values already. However, using a reference in a function argument allows you to declare the dimensions of the array being passed. This means you can verify the array you are passing is the correct size at compile-time, making what could be a hideous run-time error into an nonthreatening compile-time error!</p>
