---
layout: post
title: Ninth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I finished the Allocator project. We also learned a lot about vectors and how to implement them using allocators, including a really cool trick that involves passing a copy by value in order to reuse code in the copy constructor in the copy assignment operator.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>I think it would be really nice if we could go back to previous questions on the quiz. A lot of these quizzes have been having really low averages and, at least in my experience, most of that has to do with the fact that you can't really spend the time you need to on the harder questions because you don't know how long the next question is going to take you. I feel like quizzes should either be ordered from easiest to hardest question or just let us go back. It's quite frustrating to rush through two hard code reading questions just to realize that there is just a simple “know it or you don't” reading question at the end.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we will start working on the Darwin project, which looks like it will be significantly more difficult than Allocator was. It also seem like a more traditional object-oriented type project with class diagrams and the like, so it will be cool to do a project with that kind of stuff in C++.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>Allocator turned out to be pretty straight forward, but I found the lack of feedback on Piazza the day before the project was due to be a little distressing. One thing in particular is that it wasn't really made clear how many unit tests we needed. I operated under the assumption that the provided tests don't count, but I could easily see someone making the opposite assumption as well. Additionally, none of our pull requests were accepted into the public repo before the due date. This meant we couldn't uncomment the line in our makefiles that checked if our code was in the repo. When people asked if this mattered, they also received no response before the project was due. It all seem very strange to me. I figured someone would be keeping tabs on Piazza the day the project is due, especially because the nature of the Piazza derived requirements encourages you to not turn in the project in until the last moment.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p><a href="http://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=2209021">Here's</a> a cool article on covariance and contravariance in C++. It's a little confusing but basically, covariance is when you have a templated type, such as <code>type&lt;T&gt;</code>, when <code>S</code> is a subtype of <code>T</code>, <code>type&lt;S&gt;</code> is a subtype of <code>type&lt;T&gt;</code>. This would mean you can assign values of <code>type&lt;S&gt;</code> to variables of <code>type&lt;T&gt;</code>. Contravariance is the opposite, where the type with template argument of the base class is a subtype of the one with the child class. By default, C++ has neither of these behaviors but, as the article explains, this is achievable with some clever, albeit a little mind bending, templating.</p>
