---
layout: post
title: Tenth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we were introduced to the Darwin project. We also listened to a presentation from Pariveda about what they do as a company and the tools and practices they use.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothing in particular is in my way this week. The Darwin project feels like the most open-ended project we've done so far in regards to design, but ts not to bad once you work past that.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I'll be finishing off the Darwin project. I feel like a lot of the specification for this one is going to come from Piazza, so I got to pay attention to see if people come up with any questions I didn't think of.  As for the lectures, it appears that we will be continuing our discussion of vectors and memory management.</p>
<p><b>Thoughts on the course</b></p>
<p>We got our exam grades back yesterday, which helped me gain a lot of clarity as to my standing in the course. Honestly, I had no idea how I was going to do on the exam and how it was going to be graded. Now I know the focus is on getting your consts and your references in order as those mid-sized deductions can add up if you're not careful. Overall, I think the grading was fare and the end result reflected how prepared I was for the exam. Grading did take a while but I can understand that it must be quite difficult to work out how to grade a code exam like this. So while I prefer to get my grade quickly, the TAs taking their time so people don't feel that their grades as questionable is okay too.</p>
<p>I also feel like I'm finally starting to get some mileage out of the readings with this project. The book and the online articles talked about a lot of things that I never really got to apply because of the nature of the previous projects. Since Darwin is a more traditional object-oriented problem, it fits the topics of the readings a lot better.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I found <a href="http://www.javaworld.com/article/3103442/learn-java/immutable-empty-collections-and-iterators.html">this</a> article perusing the JavaWorld website were the lasted readings were. It talks about why Java has empty, immutable lists and how they can be used to avoid throwing NullPointerExceptions. It's a small thing, but can be useful to make your code a little more durable and clean which definitely never hurts.</p>
