---
layout: post
title: Eighth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This past week we learned about Python's mysterious decorators. We also had some guest lectures about the web services we can use for the IDB project. I also started getting organized with my group on that project, though things have been difficult with midterms and spring break.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Finding a topic for the IDB project has been rough. Many topics don't have an API publicly available. Many of the ones that do lack enough depth to build a sufficiently complex model for them. Additionally, if everyone in your group doesn't like the topic, its difficult to move forward. My group and I have been indecisive this past week and, unfortunately, most of the robust APIs have now been taken.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week is spring break. I'm going to be in California doing interviews, but I'm planning on coordinating with my group to get moving on Project 3. I've found a couple suitable APIs so hopefully we can come to an agreement on one.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>Project 3 is pretty different from the other projects. The group size much larger and there are many technologies that you have to go out and learn on your own. In a way, this is a simulation of what a real work environment would be like but, at the same time, you can get a bit lost on what to do. It took me some time to fully understand what a RESTful API even is. The lack of in-person meeting with the group due to spring break also makes this process more difficult.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Since we were talking about decorators in class this week, I chose <a href = "https://www.codementor.io/sheena/advanced-use-python-decorators-class-function-du107nxsv"> this article</a> about use cases for decorators. It introduces the concepts like decorators with multiple arguments (besides the callable it is decorating) and gives practical examples for why they would be useful.</p>
