---
layout: post
title: Fifth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week I finished the Netflix project. Just in time, too, because my hard-drive failed on Thursday night, making me lose my Linux partition. I can hardly imagine the horror if I had not turned it in that morning (well, if Github didn't exist). In class we talked about various convenient features of Python like lambdas, comprehensions, and generators and all the weird rules that apply to them.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>I don't really see anything in my way right now. While the projects, quizzes, and readings can be tough its nothing that can't be done.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we get a break from projects due to the up coming exam. This is great for me because I have to figure out what I am going to do about my busted computer (fortunately, I've got Windows installed on my SSD). We were halfway through discussing RMSE calculations and Python's zip() function on Friday, so I assume we will be finishing that up on Monday.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>This class is giving me a real appreciation for Python. At first I had the typical view of the language, decrying its weak typing, weird syntax, and reliance on white-space. Now I see an incredibly well designed language that would have been amazing if they had just added curly braces. It was the generators and the ability to for each over iterators that got me. It's not only clever, it's useful too.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p><a href = "http://tech.magnetic.com/2015/05/optimize-python-with-closures.html">Here's</a> an article about how closures can be used to optimized Python code. Closures were a weird feature of Python that we were introduced to this week and this article shows how it can be put to good use to improve performance. By caching values in “local” variables that you then use as part of a closure, you can save expensive look-up times or method calls.</p>
