---
layout: post
title: Nineth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we returned from spring break and got to work on finishing Project 3. Most of our time is class was spent discussion relational algebra and implementing it in Python.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Besides the difficulties I had in finishing Project 3, its been difficult balancing interviewing at companies and college work. Luckily, the interview season is starting to come to a close and I can focus on staying up to date on my assignments.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we will probably get started on the next phase of the IDB project. Of course, most of my group is pretty burned out on it so we may take a little break first.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>Alright, so Project 3 was a bit of a fiasco for my group and I feel like we were not alone. We often got conflicting requirements from the TAs during office hours and on Piazza. One thing that got our group was that we were told we needed to use React and implement sorting in this phase. This took a least a day and a half of effort to implement even though it turned out to not even be required for this section of the project. Something that I saw that effected other groups was that they implemented their model pages as a table instead of a grid and were only informed of their mistake at the last minute. The choice of requirements for this part of the project (like creating a models.py file without a database) made the working on it really awkward and confusing. Our group had problems using tools like pydoc on our models.py because they required the code they were used on to be runnable which, without a database to connect to, it was not. If the requirements for this phase had simply been “serve up these static pages and provide these pieces of documentation” and pushed things like unrunnable models to the next section, things would have been easier to understand.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Need help passing data from Flask to your HTML templates in a way they can be used by a React script? <code>jsonpickle</code> may have the solution you are looking for! It has the ability to convert your object models in JSON format which you can then pass to your render_template call. Jinja2 has a <code>&#123 &#123varname &#124 tojson&#125 &#125</code> directive which you can use with JavaScript's <code>JSON.parse()</code> function to have effectively passed an object from Flask into your script.</p>
