---
layout: post
title: Third Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This past week I finished the Collatz project. Despite it being the first time I really used Python, the files the professor gave use to start with helped ease me into the language without much incident. I also finished the XP book and it feels good to finally have those 23 chapters about workflow behind me. In class we talked about exceptions and types (in regards to implementation and mutability). We also had a a guest speaker from Bloomburg who told us about all the cool tools they use (mostly Hadoop).</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothing is really in my way, though I must admit the JavaScript book is pretty mind boggling. It almost seems like the guys who made the language purposely forgot everything they knew about programming languages, designed the language, and then gave it Java-like syntax. I have to write some sample code to check my understanding of every little detail because they build up on each other really quickly.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I'll start working on the Netflix project. I'll probably be going without a partner because I have a tight schedule the next two weeks. We'll probably be discussing it in class so that will help me judge the difficulty before deciding whether to go it alone.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>I ran into trouble with the requirements of the Collatz project being changed at the last minute through Piazza. Originally, Professor Downing stated to remove dead code after implementing the metacache, but changed this the day before the project is due. While its not to big of a deal to copy over some code from a previous commit, doing this also changed my coverage numbers and forced me to change my unit tests as well. Since making last minute changes to a project has blown up in my face in the past, I usually prefer to have my code finalized a few days before something is due. Unfortunately, this change of requirements had me messing with my code two hours before the project was due because I had obligations for other classes on Thursday that took up my time. This sort of thing happened in CS371p last semester as well. I understand that this is why Professor Downing only lets us turn in the project the day its due, but putting things down to the wire like that is tough when you are juggling other projects.</p>
<p>In other news, the readings are manageable and the lectures continue to be engaging. I was initially skeptical when I saw we were having a guest lecturer from a finance software company, but he actually had a lot of interesting things to say (so much so that we didn't even get through all the slides!).</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p><a href = "http://www.jstips.co/en/keyword-var-vs-let/">Here's</a> an interesting article about a new keyword in the newest version of ECMAScript, the standard the JavaScript tries to conform to. The keyword is called “let” which is the same thing as “var” in JavaScript except it is block-local. That's right, no longer will every variable be a global variable. This essentially takes a classic design problem of the language (of which many pages of our textbook are devoted to) and throws it out the window. What a time to be alive.</p>
