---
layout: post
title: Eleventh Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we learned about SQL and worked on part two of our IDB project. This part of the project had a lot of focus on our API, including a database, and functionality like sorting and filtering.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothing is in my way right now. That is probably because this is one of those weeks were nothing is due.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>My group will get started on IDB part 3 which will deal with using another group's API. I sure hope their API is as spectacular and user-friendly as ours or this may turn into a bit of a headache.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>IDB part 2 when a lot smoother than the first part, mostly because the weird details like deploying or figuring out the technologies we need to use were handled in the first step. This part basically amounted to writing some code to do sorting and the API and stuff. Well, I'm sure my teammate who figured out the SQLAlchemey stuff probably doesn't feel that way, but, besides that, things went pretty well.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Are your react scripts not working in certain browsers like Safari? Well, more likely than not, this is caused by your cross-complier. The only one that I have found to work on all browsers is a janky open-source cross-compiler called Babel. You can get the source here: https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/babel-core/5.8.34/browser.min.js, just include it as the src attribute of a script tag. You can invoke the cross compiler by setting the type attribute of your react scripts to <code>text/babel</code>. After making this change, you will notice that none of your events work any more. This is because tags that interact with react functions compiled with Babel need to be made inside the script. That means creating your button tag or whatever programatically with react and setting its onClick attribute with something like <code>onClick ={functionName.bind(null, arg1, arg2, ...)}</code>.</p>
