---
layout: post
title: Second Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>We spent most of this week going over the Collatz project. There are a lot of details that you have to get right when doing a project for this course, so Professor Downing explained the work-flow to us and gave us examples for things like coverage and unit tests. After that we talked a little bit about exceptions and what they are good for as opposed to assertions.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Writing in Python is a kind of frustrating. Its hard to remember a lot of the little details like putting a colon at the end of if and loop statements and its even harder to remember that whitespace matters in this language. When I got the error message “unexpected space” it took me longer than I'm willing to admit to figure out what it was talking about. Oh well, I'm sure that by the time I finish this class tabs will be just as natural as brackets to me.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Well, if I don't finish it tonight, I'll be working on the Collatz project next week. I predicted the project would take me six hours so I hope it doesn't come to that. Either way, I'll probably be obsessively checking over the rubric and Piazza posts for anything I might have missed the night it's due. It can't be helped.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>So far, the lectures have been easy to follow and the quizzes have seemed pretty fair. I did take Downing's Object Oriented Programming class, though, so that may be a little biased. The topics so far have been very similar.</p>
<p>The readings are a bit hit or miss. The XP book in particular is tough to read through, especially because I feel the article “The New Methodology” covered the important parts of the book a lot more concisely. On the other hand, the Javascript book is great. Something about it is just easy to read.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Here's a nice quality-of-life tip some of you might not have heard of. Have you ever wanted to run docker, but you were tired of typing out <code>docker run -it -v hugeannoyingfilepath:/usr/cs373 -w /usr/cs373 gpdowning/python</code> with a fully qualified file path for your current folder? Ever wish you could just put in ./ instead? Well, you can use <code>docker run -it -v $(pwd):/usr/cs373 -w /usr/cs373 gpdowning/python</code> and it will automatically fill in the current directory for you. That <code>$(pwd)</code> with the dollar sign-parenthesis-command format is a trick that you can use anytime you want the text output of a command in another command. For instance, you can say <code>echo $(echo x)</p> to print x in an even cooler way than normal. Pretty snazy.</p>
