---
layout: post
title: Fifteenth Week
---
<p><b><i>Final Thoughts</i></b></p>
<p>I had taken Downing's OOP class before, so this class felt very familiar to me. Besides the formula of daily quizzes and biweekly projects (which I think works great by the way), a lot of the article readings and early projects were similar or the same. That being said, for the projects at least,  there was enough that was different about them that I didn't feel like I was just retreading my previous solutions in Python. One of the cooler things I discovered while taken the class was when I realized that you could cache the Collatz project in such a way that the whole thing ran in O(1) time. That kind of feat was impossible in the version of the project I did in OOP.</p>
<p>No on to the big project. Honestly, some moments were hit or miss. Sometimes I felt lost on what our group needed to be doing. This was especially problematic during part one of the project were it seemed like we needed to do a lot more than was expected for that phase. Those kinds of logistical issues aside, I think the project was a great experience. It was the largest group size for anything I've done in college and we were able to produce a really nice end product. I learned a lot about my likes and dislikes in regards to web development. I learned that it isn't really my cup of tea, but it was nice to see how it all works so I can understand when people are talking about it.</p>
<p>I don't have much to say on the exams other than I felt that the “gotcha” nature of the multiple choice was kind of unfortunate. For example, one question hinged on you noticing that a method had been switched from public to private. That kind of detail is just kind of difficult to spot in a mass of code and I totally missed it the first time. Its the reason most of us don't debug by eye, but by testing. That being said, debugging by eye is still an important skill so an argument can be made for and against  these kinds of questions</p>
<p>Finally, I wanted to say that the lectures were great. After taking OOP I knew I had to take SWE because I found that the interactive style of the lectures really jived with me. Downing has a way of zooming in on the most interesting or deceptively complex aspects of a topic and presenting it in a way that really makes you appreciate what the people who designed it were trying to do. The lectures were definitely the high point of the god damn class.</p>
