---
layout: post
title: Thirteenth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we finished the IDB project. In class we learned about design patterns and how to do type reflection in Java and Python.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothing is really in my way right now, except perhaps preparing the presentation for the IDB project. In order to practice, we'll have to get the entire group together at the same time which, historically, has been pretty difficult.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week will will be learning about more design patterns. Starting Friday, however, we'll also be starting presentations. Since my groups presentation is near the end, I look forward to several days of silently judging the other groups while nervously awaiting our turn to shine.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>This last part of the IDB project felt like a lot less work than the other ones. It felt like it was just the search feature and the visualization and the rest of the project was just minor details like adding more information to our write-up. The planitpoker thing, for instance, didn't feel very useful. I think it would have been cooler if we had done it at the start of the entire project.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Here's a couple little tips I learned about SQL Alchemy while doing the search feature. First off, given the class of a model object, you can use <code>model.__table__.columns.keys()</code> to get a list of all the attributes of that model. Another  cool trick is that filter parameters such as <code>like()</code> or <code>col_name= “string”</code> actually product objects with overloaded & and | operators. This means you can conditionally create  filters you want to apply to a query, store them in a list, and then use <code>reduce()</code> and SQL Alchemy's <code>filter()</code> to apply it to your <code>query</code> object.</p>
