---
layout: post
title: Tenth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we learned about SQL, regex, XML, and JSON. On top of that, my group was working on part 2 of the IDB project. We have made pretty good progress though at first glance it looks like we still have a lot left to do. Considering most of our work on part 1 was smushed into the week after spring break, I think we are in a much better spot now.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Lots of work is starting to pile up from all my different classes right now. If I can make it through all projects, essays, readings, and exams then maybe I'll survive until next Friday.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we have to finish phase 2 of the IDB project. I've got the API all planned out and implemented, but its still using dummy values. I've still got to get it integrated with the database. What could possibly go wrong?</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>We kind of ran through a bunch of different things this week but I think they were all important things to at least have a base knowledge about. Things like regex and XML aren't complicated but not being familiar with them can cause all sorts of problems. It felt like a good use of our time to go through all that.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Are you are implementing your API and want to have optional parameters that wont mess with Flask's url routing? You can use a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string">query string</a> in your url. Key value pair that are proceeded with a ? won't be matched by Flask when determining the route but can be accessed by <code>request.args.get('parameter_name')</code>. This is a really nice way to add something like optional sorting to your API.</p>
