---
layout: post
title: Fourth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This past week I worked on the Netflix project. It was a little difficult getting started because we aren't given all the starting stuff we had for Collatz, but it isn't too bad once you start to figure things out (like how to work with the caches). In class we talked about iterators, weird Python indexing, and weird Python value caching.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothing really in my way this week, though quizzes continue to be stressful. On one of the quizzes I kept adding 1+9+9+1 in my head and getting “11” somehow. I burned the remaining two minutes of the quiz wondering why none of the answers made any sense. Sometimes its tough to transition from a screw-up like that to listening to a lecture.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>I got to finish the Netflix project and, at the same time, I got to kill it at the CNS Career Fair. Can it be done? I hope so.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>The readings are a lot lighter this week now that the XP book is done. Javascript is weird as ever. For some reason, we are also looking at SQL stuff, which I guess will be incorporated into the Javascript project. Since SQL is pretty straight forward, I don't see that being to big of a deal. The Single Responsibility Principle is familiar from CS371p but definitely something worth brushing up on. As for the lectures, we spent a lot of time talking about factorial functions. It was an interesting way  to introduce iterators and map-reduce to get you thinking about the different ways to solve problems in Python.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Since the reading was about Javascript Arrays this week, <a href = "http://www.jstips.co/en/keyword-var-vs-let/">here's</a> an article about the varying performance of different ways of inserting elements into arrays. Though it may seem obvious in retrospect, using concatenation to add elements to the end of a list is way slower than adding an element at that index or using push(), but concatenation is faster when adding elements to the front of the list compared to unshift(). Array operations tend to be done in loops so this may be a detail worth keeping in mind.</p>
