---
layout: post
title: Twelfth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>In class we talked about re-factoring, the strategy design pattern, and Java's weird method overriding rules. Crucially, we learned the four instances in which a Java method can be in-lined, allowing us to see past the facade of dynamic binding into the greater truth. We also worked on IDB part 3, which for me meant implementing a search feature.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Nothing is really in my way right now. IDB part 3 has less to do in terms of things to add to the actual website, so it is a little bit more difficult than normal to divide up the work.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>My group is going to be finishing our website. There are still plenty of things we can do to make the site look a lot better. Apparently we will be learning more re-factoring/design pattern stuff in class next week as well.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>I didn't seem like much happened last week, but, at the same time, the end of the semester is rapidly approaching, so there is a lot more to do than it seems. In the next 3 weeks we will be turning in IDB part 3, giving a presentation, and taking our final exam. It feels like there is a lot packed into a short amount of time.</p>
<p><b>Tip-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Is the team using your API getting an error message about no 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' in your responses. Well, that's because AJAX calls follow the same-origin policy meaning that, by default, only calls from your own domain can load data from your domain using AJAX. There are a couple easy fixes to this, either use <code>resp.headers['Access-Control-Allow-Origin'] = '*'</code> where resp is the resp your API calls are returning or use <a href="https://flask-cors.readthedocs.io/en/latest/">this</a> to automate away that spooky one line of code.</p>
