---
layout: post
title: Fourteenth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>This week we saw the first presentations for the IDB project. We also learned about some new design patterns like the visitor and adapter patterns.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>Having the presentation and the exam back to back is a kind of tough. Because my team was one of the first to sign up, we have our presentation on Wednesday and then the exam on Thursday. I would have perfected to be one of the earlier groups so that I only had to focus on one thing at a time.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Well, as I just mentioned, we will be taking the final exam and be doing our presentation for the IDB group.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>I was kind of disappointed to see that the exam would be multiple choice again. I prefer more open ended questions as they tend to test ability rather than “gotcha” situations that could be detected by running the code and seeing what happens. Since I've always been in the habit of debugging by running code, looking for errors in code snippets or projected outputs is not one of my strong suits. Still, I understand that these kinds of tests are far more practical considering the amount of students in the course and the amount of room open ended tests leave for contesting grades.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I found a pretty cool <a href = "https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonSpeed/PerformanceTips">article</a> about python performance tricks. Whats interesting is that a lot of common knowledge from programming languages like C are completely thrown out the window. For instance, adding an integer to itself is faster than shifting it left by one. There are some other tips there too, like the proper way to concatenate strings and how you should use functions like <code>len(x)</code> instead of <code>x.len()</code> to remove the overhead of a method lookup.</p>
