---
layout: post
title: First Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>Since this was a first week of the semester, we mostly did introductory stuff. Since I had already taken Objected-Oriented Programming with Professor Downing, a lot of the things we discussed, like the Collatz Conjecture, unit testing, and assertions, were familiar but still a little different as it was in Python rather than C++.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>There's nothing big that is in right now. One thing that is a little annoying is how far the classroom goes backwards so it is hard to see the board from the back. It's unfortunate because, compared to a class were they just put a summary of what the professor is saying on the board, if you can't follow along with the code in this class you are guaranteed to get lost.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week we will probably be introduced to the first project. Since Professor Downing has already mentioned the Collatz Conjecture its pretty likely that it will be related to that. I intend to get started on it earlier rather than later, because some of the tools we will be using will be new to me.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>So far the class has been very similar to CS 371P, only with a change from C++ to Python. It makes sense because Professor Downing has to get people up to speed with the way he teaches a course. A lot of the reading is pretty familiar too so right now things are pretty comfortable. Although I must admit it was a lot to slug through, especially the XP book, but a least the authors kept things as concise as possible.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p><a href="https://blog.jscrambler.com/12-extremely-useful-hacks-for-javascript/">This article</a> has a bunch of cool little tips for writing Javascript. A lot of it has to do with finagling Javascript's type system but there are also a couple tips about arrays (the coolest one being that slice() takes negative numbers).</p>
