---
layout: post
title: Seventh Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>Last week we learned about Python's crazy argument packing and unpacking rules, which appear to have been designed to be as confusing as possible. As a side note, we also took our first exam.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>There isn't anything in particular in my way right now, though handling midterms, coordinating with my group on Project 3, and figuring out the stuff I need to do over spring break is getting a little overwhelming.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week I'll be getting started on Project 3. I'm not quite sure how it is going to work, but I assume we will be told more about it on Monday.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>The exam was definitely not what I was expecting. I figured the test would be mostly code writing but it turned out to be all multiple choice. As a result, I have mixed feelings about it. On one hand, I didn't think the test was very difficult. On the other hand, I didn't do as well as I expected, so there must have been some detail on one or two of the questions that I overlooked. As someone who struggles more with gotcha-esque quiz questions compared to free response, the format was a little frustrating for me. That being said, I'm sure most people disagree with that sentiment. It's understandable because free response is troublesome to grade fairly and timely and students want their tests results instantly and have a better shot at credit if they have no idea what the answer is.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>Since we are about to write database code with a web interface, I felt an <a href = "http://www.acunetix.com/websitesecurity/sql-injection/">article</a> about SQL injection would be a good pick for this week. If you are new to SQL, its something you may not have heard of but it is very important not to screw up. Basically, creating SQL queries with string concatenation such as <code>executeQuery(“SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE user = '”+username+ “'AND pass ='” + pass+ “'”)</code> can be very dangerous. For instance, if someone inputted <code>'; DROP TABLE Customers --</code> as their user name then the entire table would be dropped. This sort of thing can cause bugs even when there isn't someone targeting you maliciously (some names have dashes and single quotes in them), so the least you can do is be sure to escape special SQL characters (hopefully there is an API to do this for you).</p>
