---
layout: post
title: Sixth Week
---
<p><b><i>What did you do this past week?</i></b></p>
<p>Last week had less going on than normal because we have a break from projects to prepare for the exam. In class we talked about iterators and containers as well as Python's bizarre (and surprisingly useful) 'yield' keyword.</p>
<p><b><i>What's in your way?</i></b></p>
<p>I haven't managed to get a group for the next project yet. Hopefully I can work it out after I'm done with the exam.</p>
<p><b><i>What will you do next week?</i></b></p>
<p>Next week is the big exam week. It will cover all kinds of scary topics like Extreme Programming and iterators. I plan on reviewing by going over the lectures and writing sample code and comparing it to the given implementation. In class we will be talking about function unpacking, which looks like it will be a little confusing.</p>
<p><b><i>What's my experience of the class?</i></b></p>
<p>As we delve more into the pythonic way of doing things, it is becoming clear that the language has a pretty unique approach compared to what I have worked with before. The use of generators is encouraged to the point of a designated keyword (yield). Its easy to appreciate how the class is showing us how to work with these conventions rather than against them. I can see many potential bugs arising from not properly understanding things like generators. For instance, one might not know that they can be used up by something like converting it to a list.</p>
<p><b>Pick-o-the-Week</b></p>
<p>I found a handy <a href = "https://www.codementor.io/sumit12dec/python-tricks-for-beginners-du107t193">article</a> with a couple useful tricks for working in Python. A couple of the things mentioned (like zip()) have already been discussed in class but there are definitely some tricks that I did not know about. For instance, did you know you can swap two variables by saying <code>a, b = b, a</code>? A lot of these tricks have to do with seamlessly transitioning between tuples, lists, and strings in a simple, pythonic way.</p>
